# Data-Science-Projects
## The first and sixth files contains a data sedmentation approach K-means and a hierarchical cluster analysis in R.
The dataset I used was developed by IBM data scientists and used to look at factors related to employee job satisfaction and attrition from Kaggle (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/pavansubhasht/ibm-hr-analytics-attrition-dataset)
I assumed I work in HR and was tasked with developing strategies to address the job satisfaction needs of the company’s employees. My business question was: “How can our company effectively target strategies to improve employee satisfaction to specific groups of employees based on their characteristics and performance?”
## The second file, I conducted a multiple linear regression analysis in R. I used a dataset of 310 credit card holders optained from Kaggle (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/pavansubhasht/ibm-hr-analytics-attrition-dataset)
For this linear regression analysis, I assume working at a credit card company and would like to predict new cardholders’ credit card balances based on a number of factors. The dataset only contains information on cardholders who maintain a balance at some point during a month (meaning their balances are not zero). The credit card company does have customers who do not have a credit card balance (because they are not using their cards). This analysis is only examining active card users. My business questions are: “What variables effectively contribute to predicting active cardholders’ credit card balances?” and “What credit card balance might a new active cardholder hold depending on certain variables?” 
## The Time Series file containins several different time series analyses using R. 
Every quarter, the Bureau of Transportation Statistics (BTS) takes a survey to track domestic airfares. This time series shows average airfares calculated from BTS (inflation adjusted to 2018 dollars) for U.S. domestic flights from 2004 to 2018.
For the time series analyses, I assume working for a large airline (in 2018) and would like to forecast 2019 average annual airfare in order to inform your airline’s pricing strategy. My business question is: “What is a reasonable forecast of 2019 average U.S. domestic airfare given the patterns in past data?”
